and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business
growth show excited to be joined by
robert tadros today
robert's a digital marketer
philanthropist and investor
based over in melbourne he's best known
for founding impressive
the fastest growing technology company
in australia as recognized
by deloitte robert a very welcome to the
show how you doing
thank you sir it's uh it's good to be
here on the other side of the world
that's it man really good oversight in
the polling indeed indeed
so robert this is going to be an
exciting episode we're going to be
talking all about
how people can start a profitable
ecommerce business
in 2021 um we're going to be diving into
the nuts and bolts of it is it is it
worth it now are we too late in the game
to jump into ecom
after everyone's been on the corona
wagon we're going to talk about the tech
that you need to invest in
and how most importantly it's all good
having a great website but if no one can
find it um we know it's
as good as dust so we need to make sure
that we're marketing to the right
customers
um so throwing you at the deep end
robert is is it is it too late to get
into ecom in 2021
no look i i don't think it's ever it's
ever too late um
i sincerely believe having founded and
built and sold a number of ecom
businesses that
um you know as long as you've got the
right product
and the right i guess the reason why
you're even
in business in the first place as far as
your purpose
and where you're taking the business and
what problem you're solving you can
never be too late
okay i think absolutely i sincerely
believe that currently in 2021 there's
some great opportunities
as far as certain product categories and
you know if you're somewhat tech savvy
or you know how to use google it's not
very hard to find
which what those categories are so i
i do believe that you can essentially
enter the e-com market
at any any stage of the game um but
there is obviously there's a lot that
you need to unpack before you dive
straight in
yeah and that's that's exactly it and
that's what we'll be we're diving into
in today's episode
um so reassuring to hear that it's not
too late just just
at this this stage in in the year so all
good so
in terms of getting started robert
how do we i mean say we've got a few
things in our mind
is there is there some things we should
think about before we just
dive in and pick any random product that
we want to start selling online
should we should we be thinking about
things like what we're passionate about
ourselves or what we actually like or
should we look at be looking into the
markets as in what's selling well right
now but
are there any things that you've had
experience with both personally or with
your clients
um that you could perhaps give give our
audience pointers on in terms of picking
the right products to sell
yeah i think you touched on it there um
briefly but you know for me
i've always been a big believer in
loving what you do because you would
never work a day in your life
right um so if if you take that concept
and just apply it to getting into
business and and e-commerce more
specifically
you know we think about there is
absolutely there's a plethora of
different categories and products and
verticals that you can
that you can enter but if you're you
know sincerely
if you're doing if you're trying to
build this econ brand
an ecom business just for the sake of
chasing the flashy things the cars and
the jet planes and
everything else in between it's probably
not going to succeed right
yes a lot do but a lot also fail however
if you're in it for the right person for
the right reasons and you're
sincerely trying to solve an issue or a
product or a challenge
uh sorry um solve a challenge it will
succeed
okay i've been surrounded with a lot of
ecom
entrepreneurs both here locally in
australia and internationally
and it always comes down to why am i
doing this what is my purpose
right for starting this brand in the
first place um
and from there everything sort of falls
into place right
so you start to naturally attract
the right audience and the right product
um and
you know find the right i guess location
or geographic location where you can
start marketing
marketing the brand um yeah i think
the key here is is really are you
passionate about what you're about to
get yourself into as far as the econ
game
and what problem are you solving yeah
yeah yeah i mean i i guess that's that's
where the longevity side of things comes
into it hey robert in terms of
if you're not too interested in what
you're selling whilst it it might be a
hugely profitable item
the chances are you could get bored if
things to start going if things start
playing up if there's issues
then you may be less inclined to
actually want to fix them to actually
work on them
because you're not too bothered about
the product you're not too bothered
about what you're doing
and so i guess unless unless you're
selling tons and tons of it and it's
it's a quick success
then you might lose interest look and
and a lot do
right and that's that's the uh that's
the point here right like a lot i know
again
a lot of entrepreneurs a lot of uh ecom
startups that have
that have found and landed on certain
products that do extremely well and they
make a lot of
a lot of money but yeah the key here is
are you truly passionate about what
you're doing and is there
you know are you i guess driving this
this business with conviction
okay and what is the end goal like why
are you in business in the first place i
think is the key
key question so i like to always zoom
out and go why am i about
why am i about to get into what i'm
about to get into what difference am i
going to make
yeah that makes sense and in terms of
e-commerce in general from your
experience
is it something you can be successful
and when i say that i mean actually
drive a profit pretty quick
or is it more of a long-term strategy
which is something we our guests talk
about quite a lot in terms of marketing
strategies
or is it somewhere in the middle is it
is is there is there no definitive
answer
i'll take option c there is no
definitive answer right
um look and it's for a number of reasons
i mean um
i was my first ecom business i was
selling a product that was worth 39
right so the cost per acquisition for me
was almost double that amount right
however
so you know a lot of business owners at
that stage will think well if i'm
spending you know let's call it eighty
dollars to to
to close a thirty nine dollar product or
to sell a thirty nine dollar product
well that doesn't make any sense
however for me it was about yes i've got
a high cost per acquisition
initially right but the long term here
is
and which is what i'm looking at is the
individual that has bought the consumer
that bought the product
will have to come back each month to buy
the same product again so
now for me it's not about the initial
acquisition outlay
it's about what is the time life value
of their clients
and i think i sincerely believe in in
e-commerce
specifically don't just try and go for
the quick wins
and be the one hit wonder right where
you close one sale and you produce a you
know a crappy product that they're never
going to come back and buy again
if you can you know source or
look at what it is that you're selling
and does it have longevity
is it can we build a monthly recurring
revenue model from it
um that is typically where i see a lot
of econ businesses do
to do really well and succeed got it so
rather than thinking about the the quick
hits the quick wins
going for something yeah and that's
probably something we'll touch on a bit
later in terms of the marketing side of
things and how to acquire customers
get them onto your site get them
converting into sales in the first place
but that's an interesting point and
think and uh something that people
should probably consider
that you may not make profit instantly
from customers
but if you have got an item like you
said robert that they might be
purchasing every month
then the chances are that will soon ramp
up and over time the lifetime value of
that customer could be extremely
profitable
absolutely that's a that's absolutely
right um and that has always been a key
to my
approach in building ecom businesses is
do i can i build a monthly recon revenue
model from my
ecom store because i'm not interested in
selling the item once
it's essentially you know it's not a
very sustainable model
um so if you take that into
consideration and ask yourself
you know if the product that i'm about
to sell products
will the customer come back and buy more
or are they just buying it once and that
is it now
again you know there's certainly some
products that have got a very high
ticket
that are very high ticket item and
absolutely you can sell the month and
there it's about volume and getting as
many customers to buy the product once
right but i've found again from my
experience um
again for 12 13 years now
the ones that do extremely well the
subscription based
or products that can that have that
monthly recurring revenue
attached to them yeah yeah yeah we all
know there's plenty of stats out there
that show
it's a lot more expensive to acquire new
customers than it is to sell to your
existing
so once you've got them on board as
we'll chat through in a bit there's so
many tools and so many ways you can
remarket to your existing customers
and keep them coming back for more as
long as the product in the first places
is something that you can you can keep
offering to them um
i'm moving forward in terms of actual
manufacturing
and distribution perhaps we could look
at two angles robert perhaps we could
look at mvp
where there's perhaps i know with some
products there's the drop shipping model
where you don't necessarily have to do
much too much you can perhaps get a
website straight away
and then a third party will manage all
the the production and the distribution
all that
and shipping all that good stuff for you
or right on the other end of the scale
whether you set up a full operation
yourself whether that's creating the
product having your own warehouse
having a team of setting up all the
products and all the shipping
and managing the full logistics cycle
which is perhaps something a lot of
companies grow into
um say we want to start with a minimum
of our product minimum viable product
mvp model
and what are some things that we need to
consider robert
yeah it's an interesting one sam i mean
i've i've played in both
both games i've run a drop shipping
business
and and some of the challenges that i
face there is
you really need to take i mean
ultimately it's
running a very lean operation because
essentially you're running on
very very slim margins um and i know
you know currently the market is
absolutely saturated
as far as as far as drop shipping it is
a great model to get started
if you keen to learn and understand if
you're new to e-commerce
it's probably a good way a good place to
start don't expect to make a lot of
money
initially because as i said you know
your margins are very very thin
um in in addition to that you're not
selling a very unique product
right so the consumer behavior now tells
us that if i find a particular product
they're pretty savvy they're going to go
and google it or have a look at
you know social if they get retargeted
or another channel
and they're most likely going to find it
a little bit cheaper somewhere else
okay and then it becomes a race to the
bottom which ultimately means you're
eating into your margin
so it's a great way to get started and
uh
don't get me wrong there are a lot of
very successful drop shipping businesses
that have done extremely well
um but on the on the flip side owning
your own i guess manufacturing your own
product again that comes with its own
challenges
as far as where the item is coming from
um you know is a high
manufacturing cost the high shipping
cost for instance if it's coming from
asia into australia or into the uk or
into the us that generally comes with a
pretty hefty price tag
but the great thing is is that there are
ways to to reduce
um some of those initial initial costs
that can really eat into the overall
um profit of the of the product um you
know i'm going to name drop but a great
partner of ours recently airwallex
which is an australian fintech which is
it's actually a unicorn
of a business um you know they've they
they've produced a a very um
cost-effective product if you like that
can really improve margins and
streamline finances within an e-commerce
business
typically through a bank you're paying
very high margins
a very high fee sorry for transfers you
know a lot of foreign exchange
with these guys it's like 90 cheaper so
there are ways to increase margin and
still be able to deliver
um the right product you know to the
right person without having to spend the
bucket load of money
um you know drop shipping and again as i
said eating into those
eating into those margins so um yeah
yeah there's no right or wrong but again
from my experience i've found that
if you can if you've got the right tech
stack
right if i was to use that word and the
right um
partners you'll you'll be able to grow
something pretty
uh pretty substantial by manufacturing
your own your own product
and it becomes unique as well no i mean
i get both sides of the coin do you
think we should test the market first
before we
put a significant investment into things
like manufacturing the products
ourselves setting up our own logistics
chain
and all that good stuff because we could
end up spending thousands tens of
thousands even hundred thousand
depending on
what's entailed and then if our
product's not necessarily a good fit or
if it doesn't hit the market properly
even when when we get into marketing
um we've perhaps wasted a ton so is
there ways we can actually test the
market or is it not that easy
no look absolutely and and hence i
suggested that you know
starting as a drop shipping model is
actually not a bad idea
um as i said for a number of reasons it
gives you the opportunity to
test different categories all right so
you could launch an ecom site
drop ship a number of different
categories and really split test them
against each other to see which one is
actually more viable and which one's
more
um you know essentially more profitable
um
and once you've you've landed on a on a
product or a category that does
extremely well
you can now look at how you can finesse
that product or make it better and get
it manufactured and make it your own
so you know i know once again a lot of
really successful econ businesses that's
how they've
essentially started so as a stepping
stone
absolutely i would recommend you know
drop shipping to just learn
the game and understand what's involved
um
land on a category or a particular you
know product or products that you know
will do extremely well based on the
testing
and then take them refine and redevelop
them and come up with something unique
which is going to give you a strategic
edge in the market
i like it okay so we've we've got our
products
we've got our got our system set up in
terms of how we're going to manufacture
them produce them
and start shipping them now's the juicy
part we need the tech
behind it so we need we need a platform
on which these products can sit on
um and as many of us know there's
there's
tons of different e-commerce web
platforms do it yourself
obviously you can get an agency you get
freelance you can get a team in
um what are some things that we should
think about rob before we jump into
platforms like obviously shopify is one
of the big hitters
then we've got a bunch of others other
platforms and in there
that we can build e-commerce upon what
are some of the things we should think
about before we just google best
ecommerce platform and pick one and jump
away
my number one and i time and time again
this has has occurred number one in my
business and and externally as well
is location location location really put
some time and effort into the tld or the
domain name that you're
registering um there's been so many
examples
honestly throughout my 13 touching on 14
years now where
local businesses have registered a local
domain whether it's dotco.uk.com.u.com
probably.com um and have you know
the store has gone um bananas right like
it's done extremely well and then all of
a sudden they're like well the world is
my oyster
i want to go international and they're
very
restricted by the domain right something
very simple that isn't taken into
consideration a lot of the time
they try and go and buy the dot com
because they want to go global whether
it's setting up
getting a little bit technical now
subfolders or sub domains
and they struggle because number one
someone already owns a domain and
they're probably trying to sell it back
to them
and an example that i will never forget
one of my
my actually my third client local
business here in australia
dot com dot eu done extremely well
started getting
onto the global stage she tried to buy
the dot com
they tried when they were basically
demanding 250 000 usd
wow okay so and i could even see through
just registered history that it was only
bought you know a year ago
i think it was a year pro um um
uh going internationally so they you
know a lot of the main squatters as i'm
sure you know you probably agree sam
that you know they go and
they buy the domains they sit on them
and then they'll try and basically
blackmail you and sell them back to you
for
for a bucket load of money and a lot of
bigger businesses
um have no choice but to pay the those
prices
right so something to really take into
consideration is like
what is my intention with this business
am i taking it global
and really own your domains so so
critical
yeah yeah great point and i know back in
the day
that another thing to consider with with
domains was also the seo so the search
engine optimization and how well they
can stand on google
um so at some stage businesses were
actually trying to weave in
their main search terms into the domain
itself what are your thoughts on on that
robot do you think you should just go
with your brand name
yeah look i'm i'm very big on building a
brand right
um i know the days of i mean i it's
essentially when i was 17 it was those
days when i was starting to
you know black hat seo and buying
blackdress online.com
right and all i sold was black dresses
now this is not actually a true story
but that's what a lot of
a lot of guys were doing i think now
it's
it's more important than ever to build a
brand right
rather than just a website with a bunch
of products
because there's nothing really
differentiating you to your competitors
and the reality is the online the online
space is becoming very fierce it's very
very competitive
right so building a brand i believe
honestly is probably one of the most
critical
um uh pieces i guess that you need
you need to solve and and work on um and
that you know ties into your domain name
it ties into your
you know your content your personas who
you're speaking to so it all sort of
flows from
from or stems from from from that so yes
it's a bit controversial you can some
seo seos would argue that there's
name domains still work um i argue that
sure they might still work
um however there's nothing better than
having it owning a brand rather than
just a bunch of keywords
you know in a in a domain name yeah yeah
i see the point and yeah i love the
long-term thinking as well
um because i've had clients in exactly
the same position where they've had
maybe dot co dot uk
sites and then they've gone to purchase
the dot com or whatever the variant was
they wanted and then just like you say
you you realize it's already been
registered you speak to the broker and
they're like yeah i'd love to sell it to
you that'd be a hundred grand please
and then just pull off your chair and uh
cry the rest of the day away
definitely thinking long term and
probably even registering those domains
just in case
and thinking about kind of where you're
at and and also the fact that like you
mentioned if if you're gonna move a
website over domains
bearing in mind seo and your google
rankings might take a hit
so just just thinking about those those
bases really
yeah and look you touched on a very good
point there around seo
i know you know you mentioned shopify
shopify earlier which had some
um i guess some challenges with setting
up multi
you know multi-stores or you know global
global stores one of the challenges of
shopify at one stage was
was you know using this sub domain to
try and um i guess rank and optimize in
certain certain locations on certain
googles
i believe that that's now been fixed and
you can essentially
set up subfolders and i'm getting a
little bit technical here but
there was a limitation on on a platform
and has been a limitation on
on a number of a number of platforms so
again taking seo into consideration from
a technical perspective
is probably just as important um to
to consider when when looking at what
type of domain you're you're purchasing
and what the setup of the higher
you know the structure of the site and
the site map is going to look like
yeah so i mean this is a bit of a tricky
one rob so we've covered the domain side
of things now in terms of actually
nailing the platform perhaps we don't
necessarily have to name drop platforms
although you're more than welcome to if
you wish
of ones yourself or your clients have
had success with um
but yeah bearing in mind kind of search
engine positions bearing in mind we're
going to want to market the site
we've already got our domain bearing in
mind we also need to think about whether
we have whether we've got a small or a
large
product range and i guess things like
how easy this website is going to be to
manage and update products on a
day-to-day basis
what are some of the kind of
considerations we need to really now
nail down before we start picking a
platform that we're either going to
build ourselves or contract a
professional to
to get set up for us yes and naturally
say i mean cost is a big one here and
budget
um you know there are a number of
platforms here are very much self-serve
you can
um you know download a theme um they're
pretty intuitive
um and to be honest one of them if my
mother can build one that i think
anybody can
so you know they've made the the user
experience i guess the user interface
very simple that you can essentially
just go through a number of clicks and
you know next thing you know you've got
yourself a theme and
you can start to upload products others
are obviously a lot more complex
and require developers which in turn
means
you know you need a substantial budget
um
so my recommendation is always to start
on the self-serve platforms and you know
i know we've spoken about shopify a
number of times here so i don't mind
name dropping them because i believe
they are great and they produce a
a good product um it's probably a good
place to start um they've got some great
themes
um pretty pretty easy to set up for for
a startup
if you getting into the drop shipping
game though it does make it a little bit
more difficult
however in saying that there are certain
platforms that offer purely drop
shipping solutions
um from end to end so you know you can
get on their platform
which they've invested quite heavily in
you can pick a theme
they'll help you with the products and
the design and the user experience on
the sites
um and they'll pretty much support you
from a to z until
until until launch so yeah again with
the rise of e-commerce there's been
there's a lot of different solutions out
there as far as um
you know which platforms and the
functionalities and and what and what
they can provide
yeah no like i like that and i like the
recommendation that you can obviously
start building yourself
if you've got the time to do so there's
plenty of themes
around there um just like you say
finding one that suits your needs
getting it set up and then like you say
you can always go to a
specialist to grow out as as when the
time comes
are there any other things we need to
think about in terms of tech or
integration rob
whether that's payment gateways or
whether that's other things that might
slip our mind
actually are pretty crucial in terms of
actually enabling customers to buy from
us from our from our stores
yeah i mean yeah there are a few i mean
if we look at the tech stack really
we've only spoken about
the particular platform that the
products are going to live where the
products are going to live
um you need to really consider the
like you mentioned the payment gateways
you know which payment gateways um
all you will you use i mean you've got
apple pay you've got
paypal um you've got as i mentioned
there's a number of different providers
that can that can support especially
from a foreign exchange
perspective but it's it's something that
really um you need to take the time into
understanding the fees if there are any
hidden fees or how much are they
clipping off each sale
because once again that could really eat
into margins so it is critical
to not just take something out of the
box to do your research and understand
what is the most you know what is the
most viable payment solution for me at
the moment as a startup
and what do they offer as far as growth
so can they grow with me
or will i have to leave and go to
another provider um
so i think that's another one that is is
pretty important
um and purely due to the the amount of
fees that a lot of them charge
um which can as i mentioned into even
into the margins
yeah definitely definitely and they vary
quite a bit um
in terms of payment providers and like
you say that the percentages that they
may
take how long they take to set up and
there's a lot of other things to
consider so
some good points there and this should
link us
nicely into the marketing so before we
before we jump start before we invest
the turning paid ads and
search engine optimization retargeting
influence and marketing social media
marketing all these different channels
we can
we can go down you know yeah exactly
before we spend our life on tick tock
and clubhouse
what should we be doing in terms of a
tracking perspective
so we can actually all importantly make
sure we're actually measuring
what's going on with our website uh
before we invest the turn in actually
driving customers to it yeah it's a very
very very good question
um for me i mean i once again i kind of
i can't
begin to to mention the amount of times
and conversations that i've had with
startups that having got their
analytics set up correctly right um
and they run these you know they start
these businesses and i get it right
there's a lot to do
um but they they neglect or they they
forget about the data piece which is
probably the most important right um so
my my biggest piece of advice here is
find someone whether it's a freelancer
or
you know an agency or even if you
if you really want you can watch some
youtube videos on how to set up an
analytics platform and
i think you'll agree you know google
analytics is probably the easiest
to start with ensure that it is it has
ecom functions
ecom tracking enabled that it has been
configured
to a way that it can actually start to
extract the right data
so that you can use it later on to
understand product performance category
performance
you know top pages exit rates bounce
rate sessions
there's a ton of information in there
that can really assist in you know
growing
the the store understanding where you
need to improve it
and how you can better support the
customer once they're on the website
um it's it's definitely something that
um i i would have to
yeah i'd stress highly um it
needs to need some attention no exactly
i mean i'm i'm sure you've been the same
rob in terms of having clients that
perhaps just didn't realize the power of
analytics and the power of data
and then you've maybe taken over a web
project because i know i've certainly
been there and then
you ask things like how well is the
website converting in terms of how many
orders you're getting per day per week
per month
and unfortunately they they just don't
know and it's not something that's
kind of widely pushed when you set up an
e-commerce platform perhaps on
something with a theme or something like
that it's not something they necessarily
push towards you
um or recommend you set up so yeah
definitely getting google analytics set
up is just
just the basic just because then you can
know what's going with your site you can
know the traffic you can know
how well people are converting you know
the channels that they're being sent to
the site too and there's so much more to
it i mean we could do an episode on
analytics itself
absolutely look and and one of the most
one of the biggest trends we're seeing
at the moment in 2021
is is a lot of retailers are starting to
invest quite heavily improving their
online purchase
paths right so what i mean by that is
you know is the experience personalized
is
have you personalized the experience for
each consumer as they as
they land on the site you know what is
that enriched
i guess you know purchase information
size guides and instant chats and
you know we're seeing a lot of vr now
and
an augmented reality so you know they're
trying
a lot of retailers are starting to bring
the in-store experience
online and although you'll never be able
to replicate it exactly
but there are some really cool tech out
there at the moment some really cool
tech that can be
you know implemented and deployed within
a site to give that same
experience right um you know what is
your returns policy
what's the customer experience around
that you know really nailing even the
fulfillment
aspect of a store and you know
ultimately
why am i going to buy from you so really
looking at every single step of that
conversion path
and ensuring that we are providing value
along the way to push them
into the into the conversion so um you
naturally can't do that if you haven't
got the data
so you know and we and as i mentioned
before e-commerce is becoming extremely
competitive so
this is really what sets apart you know
good ecom stores to to those that are
very average
yeah and on that note rob i'm sure we've
all been on an ecom store that's really
frustrating perhaps it's
really slow to load initially perhaps
the design itself is
an absolute struggle to navigate through
in terms of finding the products you
want to actually
get to maybe the detail pages of
products aren't very clear
perhaps once you actually press add to
your bag it takes about
10 different steps of adding all your
details you've got to put even the
primary school the secondary school and
then the university you attended before
you even get to to check out and putting
your credit card details in
and then 10 minutes later you've half
halfway through to pricing order so are
there
any i know we're coming up to time but
are there any big no's and big yeses in
terms of
that path from kind of viewing products
to adding to your bag and getting the
order done
that people need to be really aware of
and big nose or big yeses that you've
seen from experience
yeah look i mean there's a lot right um
you know the use of colors on different
buttons and you know there's some
psychology around that but again we
could probably do another session
the big one for me is the checkout
process right
and i want you know the viewers and
listeners right now think you have a
product in your hand you're about to go
to the teal in a shop and buy it
and then something happens right there's
no one there
what do you do you abandon it and you
walk out right because as consumers
we're just time poor and we we we just
we can't be bothered right we'll go to
the next store
so ensuring that you have a very fluid
customer checkout process is probably
one of the most important when it comes
to e-commerce
you know is the checkout page split over
say two or three steps
or is it one big form that i look at and
i'm like you know what this is too
intimidating i can't be bothered filling
this out
yeah what is the checkout um experience
on mobile versus desktop
so for me one of the biggest areas to
focus on as far as
e-commerce is that checkout process am i
making it easy for my customer
to check out or am i make it difficult
do i have pop-ups in their face when
they get to the checkout
checkout page or am i making it very
seamless and
and easy for them to convert so
something different to
to consider and pay attention to yeah i
love how you've broken that down just
is it easy um and something i often
say to people when they're building
websites and stuff like that is
quite often in terms of this is me going
off on a tangent but in terms of
home pages and things like that quite
often businesses want to
put their own messaging what they think
they do
how great they are and all this good
stuff when really you just need to
simplify
the the message as in what you do how
you can help people and how people can
do this business with you
doesn't really need to be any complex on
that and linking back to your e-commerce
side of things in terms of the purchase
process we just want to make it as nice
and easy
and for people to add to the bag put in
the details and get the job done
doesn't need to be anything more than
that exactly less is more
yeah right that's simple um so true more
cluttered that you make that check out
process and the more
complicated the higher the bounce rate
and exert and they just simply will not
convert
great points okay um all right so we've
got
we've got pretty much all our systems in
place we've we know that we need to
track the data we know we need to keep
an eye on what's going on with our site
how can we market this thing
do we need to do we need to jump on
every channel under the sun rob so i
hinted that
club asked me to get on linkedin he's
got facebook twitter instagram
seo paid ads uh retargeting display ads
what else do we need to be on
well it comes down to budget right so i
mean you can definitely throw
the kitchen sink at it but for for any
startup um
in in the ecom game you know again you
are really trying to
focus on those those margins and not eat
away into into those margins too much so
for me a good way to start is always
like a pay channel and an organic
channel
we know content works right so seo
really has become content now you're
providing really good content on sites
are you looking at how to's if it's an
e-commerce or how your product can
assist a certain individual
you know you can you can write some
really good content around that put a
blog on the site ensure that it is
optimized and obviously
the technical components of the site
need to be quite you know quite sound
um so for me my go-to and call me a
little bit biased but seo for me is my
still my number one channel as far as
like the cheapest traffic that i can get
right um and then i like to accompany
that with a paid channel so whether it's
social
or you know say adwords again it comes
down to budget but
currently we are seeing some of the
cheapest cpm's on social
so it's a really good opportunity to get
them to to get onto the platform and
there's a number of reasons
why but we won't necessarily get into
that um you know social is a great
channel
it allows you to drive look
decent amount of traffic at a reasonable
cost
they're not all very qualified depending
on which part of the
marketing funnel or the sales funnels
are at but it's a good place to start
to build some awareness and to get some
traffic to the site once they're there
you can you can start you know you
mentioned this earlier in the
conversation
you can start to build some retargeting
tools uh pools right depending on
behaviors and
you know which products they've clicked
on which categories and so on
and then later on segment those out and
drive certain creative
to those individuals that you know have
clicked on a particular category or the
product
to you know enticing to to to make the
to make the purchase
so for me i think a good place to start
is two channels i don't like to throw
myself on basket and just do one
it's my own personal opinion because i
think something happens
that channel goes down and it does
happen i mean at the moment i'm sure
you're aware in australia
there's a threat that google might close
down our search engine i haven't seen
that on the news yeah a little bit
worried
for yourself and clients it is worrying
so if google decides to do that well
guess what everybody that's
you know spent a buck a lot of money on
seo and adwords and so on
well they're going to be on the world of
hurt so for me it's about diversifying
the risk
and really just having multiple lead
channel multiple traffic channels
into the site to diverse as i said that
risk and also
amplify the amount of sales and
conversions that you could receive
yeah yeah i love that rob but i'm
completely on the same page and i think
i've been pissing a lot of people
off on linkedin or i certainly did a
while back because
i was saying when when people mentioned
to me or people talk to me in
conversation saying they got all their
business and linked it from linkedin
i said well that's great really glad the
channel's working for you but
essentially it's rented land
so linkedin can move the goal post
whenever they want
um so one day you might be getting tens
of thousands of reach
from your posts from your content from
your engagement the next day
that may drop and all the inbound leads
you're getting from linkedin go
what other channels have you got that
bring in inbound opportunities that
start conversations that bring in sales
um so just thinking just because
something's working well right now
it doesn't mean a month six months 12
months two years down the line it's
going to be performing well so i love
the
split test approach yeah and absolutely
it's a very valid point you make because
i i actually saw this
um there was a particular particular
time i'll go back probably
seven or eight years ago now where
e-commerce was really starting to trend
in instagram
and i called them in these instagram
businesses were starting to emerge
yeah at the time when instagram was just
very easy to
essentially make sales from um so a lot
of these businesses grew
on on organic insta and then all of a
sudden instagram was like uh
you're gonna have to pay just just to
wrap things up rob really appreciate the
chat
thoroughly enjoyed having you on so
thanks very much for your time and
sharing your ecommerce wisdom
with us today um so on that note please
do tell us more about how people can
learn from you
how people can connect with you and the
best way to get in touch
thank you samsung and thanks for having
me on the show it's been it's been an
absolute pleasure um
you can find me on my basically on
linkedin
it's robert padros you can find me on
instagram
they're probably the two most active
platforms i have just jumped on
clubhouse
but it's very very fresh right i haven't
even had the time to look into it
um but linkedin and uh and instagram are
probably the two most
uh active channels uh alternatively look
i'm always happy to take on you know
questions i'm happy to assist
so feel free to drop me an email at
robert impressive.com
so there you have it three channels that
you can essentially contact me on
thanks so much robin we'll link to all
those points of contact
in episode notes over at
businessgrowth.marketing
and with that i want to thank you once
again rob really enjoyed the chat
pleasure thank you very much for having
me cheers dude and if you enjoyed the
show be sure to hit subscribe wherever
the heck you get your podcast from we
interview business leaders
here each and every week to provide
actionable tips for marketing
growing a business and growing your
sales and with that we will catch you on
the next episode thanks very much